Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is on his way to Washington DC
where he will deliver a landmark speech
to the United States Congress ahead of
the trip Netanyahu thanked Biden for his
contribution to us Israel relations
following the president's decision to
end his re-election campaign and we also
said Israel will be the United States
strongest Ally in the Middle East
regardless of who is elected in
November let's get more on this from
DW's correspondent a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem
what more do we know about netanyahu's
visit to the United
States well this was a a visit that was
obviously planned well before uh US
President Biden's announcement to end
his uh bid for uh a second term in
office um it also comes uh after a time
of really Frosty relations between
Netanyahu and Biden over Israel's
conduct of the war in Gaza and more
specifically uh Israel's um incursion on
RAF which the United States had been uh
quite critical of after uh you know sort
of more or less unconditionally
supporting Israel following the attacks
of October uh uh 7th and now we're
seeing Netanyahu strike a more unified
tone given um given Biden's announcement
he's Netanyahu is expected to address uh
Congress and there was a lot of
speculation that that speech would try
to play up uh uh uh um his perceived uh
uh his perceived um lack of support from
Biden but we're now hearing that that
speech to Congress is likely to strike
another uh you know more of the of what
we've heard today uh more emphasis on
the unity and everything that Biden has
done for uh uh Israel at the same time
this comes at a kind of more or less a
low point for netanyahu's popularity uh
the war in its ninth ninth month now and
with uh hostages still being held uh in
Gaza we even saw protesters at the
airport here in Israel as uh uh the
Prime Minister was leaving calling on
him to try and find another deal that
would bring back the remaining hostages
and end the war in Gaza so considering
all those factors just briefly if you
could Aya could you broaden this out and
tell us where this leaves us and Israeli
relations
I don't think this is likely to have a
huge effect on Israeli American
relations look even though there have
been critical statements coming from
Washington towards the Netanyahu
Administration and the conduct of the
war the United States Still Remains
Israel's biggest Ally and not just when
it comes to providing weapons uh that
have of course contributed to the war in
Gaza but also providing diplomatic cover
for Israel in international forums like
the United Nations security Council and
so even though there are disagreements I
don't think this really marks a huge
departure from the Ironclad American
support for Israel uh and to a very
large extent the war well thank you so
much for that that is our correspondent
a Ibrahim in Jerusalem